Various storage updates (#211)
zarr-developers/zarr-specs: docs/v3/core/v3.0.rst

variety of underlying storage technologies, described in the
subsection on `Store implementations`_.

Additionally, a store should specify a canonical URI format that can be used to
identify nodes in this store. Implementations should use the specified formats

> when opening a Zarr hierarchy to automatically determine the appropriate store.

Reviewer: I don't understand what this means. Could we give an example?

Reviewer 2: I think "gs://", "s3://", "https://", etc.

Author: Exactly. Should we add some clarification in the spec, @rabernat?

    Creating a group at path `P` implies
    the existence of groups at all ancestor paths of `P`.

**Create an array**

    To create an array at hierarchy path `P`, perform
    ``set(meta_key(P), value)``, where `value` is the serialisation of a valid
    array metadata document.

    Creating an array at path `P` implies the existence of groups at all
    ancestor paths of `P`.

**Store chunk data in an array**

    To store chunk data in an array at path `P` and chunk coordinate (`j`, `i`,
    ...), perform ``set(data_key(P, j, i, ...), value)``, where `value` is the
    serialisation of the corresponding chunk, encoded according to the
    information in the array metadata stored under the key ``meta_key(P)``.

**Retrieve chunk data in an array**

    To retrieve chunk data in an array at path `P` and chunk coordinate (`i`,
    `j`, ...), perform ``get(data_key(P, j, i, ...), value)``. The returned
    value is the serialisation of the corresponding chunk, encoded according to
    the array metadata stored at ``meta_key(P)``.

**Discover children of a group**

    To discover the children of a group at hierarchy path `P`, perform

>     ``list_dir(P + "/")``. Any returned prefix not starting with ``__``
>     indicates a child group implied by some descendant group or array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ``list_dir(P + "/")``. Any returned prefix ``Q`` not starting with ``__``
    indicates a potential child array or group. To determine if the child is an array or group,
    the document ``meta_key(Q)`` must be checked.
```

What I dislike about this is that two sequential operations are required to discover children. On high latency stores, this creates significant overhead.

Does anyone see an alternative algorithm?

Reviewer 2: I think we can assume that all members are in fact children.  If we want to know if a given child is an array or a group, we do have to read the zarr.json metadata, and that is unavoidable.  As we discussed previously, though, it is likely that in cases where you want to know if it is an array or a group, you will also want to know additional details that would require reading the zarr.json metadata anyway.

Author: I rephrased this slightly to clarify it:
> To discover the children of a group at hierarchy path `P`, perform
    ``list_dir(P + "/")``. Any returned prefix ``Q`` not starting with ``__``
    indicates a child array or group. To determine whether the child is
    an array or group, the document ``meta_key(Q)`` must be checked.
    
Reading the metadata is only needed when one needs to clarify if it's a group or array.

Care must thus be taken when erasing an array or a group if the parent needs to
be converted into an explicit group.

A race-condition arises if a client writes an array at path ``P``,

> and another concurrently assumes ``P`` is an implicit group and writes subgroups or arrays into it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and another concurrently assumes ``P`` is an implicit group and writes subgroups or arrays into it.
Implementations may choose to never use implicit groups to avoid this.
```
